This is one of multiple videos discussing IP submitting.
I've received numerous questions with regards to my P submitting and I'm going to try and answer a lot
of them through these videos.
So here's a question for you.
Well p.s. one on the left.
Be able to ping P.S. 200 right in this typology P.S. on the left is configured with an IP address of
10 to 1 to 2 4 5 dot 1 slash is 17.
And the PC on the right is configured with an IP address of 10 to one.
Dr. 1:28 talk to slash 17 in the apology I'm using Cisco routers instead of Windows PCs.
As it's important for you to learn the Cisco CLID it's important for you to learn commands available
on Cisco devices.
So show IP interface brief shows me the IP address configured on the gigabit 00 interface of the router
show IP interface brief shows me the IP address configured on gigabit 00 of this router show run interface
gigabit 00 shows me the configuration of the IP address and we can see that over here as well and show
IP interface gigabit 00 shows us the configuration of router 2 and same on the side show IP interface
gigabit 00 that's the IP address of router one acting as one he has the IP address of rodder to acting
as PC too.
So will these two routers acting as PCs be able to ping each other so paying $10 to wonder too far 5.1
right.
To is able to ping rodded one we can actually see that in real time by using a de-bug IP ICMP command
that de-bug allows us to see my sim traffic in real time.
I see the protocol used by ping in this example I'll send a single ping to rot of one ping succeeds
and we can see that echo reply was sent back to Rodda to with a source IP address of 10 1 2 4 5 1 destination
IP address of 10 to 1 1 2 8 2 2.
So how do we know that they were in the same subnet.
Show run interface gigabit 00 show run interface gigabit to 0 0.
You need to look at a network and host portions to.
Five means that the first octet is a network.
Two four five means that the second octet is a network here.
However we've got 128 in the network portion.
So it becomes a little bit more tricky to work out host and network portions.
So let's try that out.
Together 10 that one is fairly simple.
That's the network portion.
However 128 in binary equals 1 followed by seven binary zeros.
Just put a space here to make it easier to read.
Obviously that space doesn't exist.
But I'll just do that for clarity of reading.
So this is the IP address portion.
And this is the mosque a binary one in the mosque indicates that that portion is part of the network
zeroes in the mosque indicates that this is host portion.
So in this example the network portion of the address equals ten not one in decimal.
And then the first binary but in the third octet if we look at the address here tendered one network
portion based on that that's the same as what we've got over here.
But in the third octet we've got 255 255 in binary is eight binary ones.
And again I'll put a space check just for clarity.
The mosque he calls 1:28.
So in this example the network portion is the first but which is the same as 128.
So if you look at the address here 10 dot one dot first binary boaties network and the same is true
here.
10.0 one plus first binary but no third octet is network.
The rest of the address is the host portion.
So I'll write it up fully 10 dot one dot 255 and one in binary equates to 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0.
That's 10 dot seven binary zeros and one binary one that's 1 dot 8 PENDREY ones.
Followed by seven hundred zeros and a binary one.
So that is the address in binary half tender 1 2 4 5 to 1.
And if we look at the mosque we've got 8 binary ones in the first octet.
So the first octet is network second octet is also network.
But in the third octet we have one binary one followed by seven binary zeros.
So this portion is the network portion.
This portion is the host portion
so blue is host
red is network portion.
If we look at the other address used in the network which is tendered 1 128 to
the host portion is different but the network portion is the same.
So these two devices even though they have different hoost portions are still in the same subnet.
Based on that information there.
So they are in the same subnet
and hence the device on the right.
Can paying the device on the left Ping's succeed and we can see the debug output on the screen.
So I hope you found this video useful if he did please like it and please subscribe to my YouTube channel.
I wish you all the very best.